Current evidence relating testosterone to cardiovascular disease and mortality is inconclusive. Cellular effects of testosterone are mediated by androgen receptor and longer receptor gene CAG repeat length correlates with reduced transcriptional activity. We investigated the independent and interactive association of total testosterone and CAG repeat length with incident cardiovascular disease (CVD), chronic kidney disease (CKD) and mortality in Chinese men with type 2 diabetes.
The emergence of onconephrology in recent years highlights the importance of the interaction between kidney disease and cancer. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and cancer are linked with each other in different ways bidirectionally: cancer can cause CKD, whereas CKD itself may be a risk factor for cancer. Kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) have a 2- to 3-fold increased cancer risk when compared with the general population. The elevated risk covers a wide range of cancers. Some are related to CKD, including cancers of the kidney, urinary tract and thyroid, whereas others are related to oncogenic viruses that include non-Hodgkin lymphoma, cervical cancer, nonmelanoma skin cancer and Kaposi's sarcoma. There is no standard protocol regarding how immunosuppressive drugs should be adjusted in patients who develop posttransplant cancers. However, any modification of immunosuppressive regimens should be balanced against the risk of allograft rejection or deterioration in kidney function. Cancer surveillance can be used as a strategy to improve the clinical outcome in KTRs. Although guidelines adopted in the general population have been used as the reference, a personalized approach based on individual cancer risk, life expectancy and concurrent comorbidities has to be adopted.
Research reports support the statement that oxidative stress and inflammation are well-known risk factors for chronic kidney disease (CKD) in patients with diabetes. This study was designed to ascertain the associated role of oxidative stress parameters and inflammatory markers in diabetes and related CKD among the north Indian population.
Dietary modification is an integral part of chronic kidney disease (CKD) management. However, adherence to the renal diet is often suboptimal.
Atrial fibrillation and chronic kidney disease commonly occur together, which poses a therapeutic dilemma due to increased risk of both systemic thromboembolism and bleeding. Chronic kidney disease also has implications for medication selection. The objective of this review is to evaluate the options for anticoagulation for thromboembolism prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation and chronic kidney disease. We searched PubMed for studies of patients with atrial fibrillation and chronic kidney disease on warfarin or a direct oral anticoagulant for thromboembolism prevention through January 1, 2018, in addition to evaluating major trials evaluating direct oral anticoagulants and warfarin use as well as society guidelines. For patients with mild to moderate chronic kidney disease, primarily observational data supports the use of warfarin, and high quality trial data and meta-analyses support the use and possible superiority of direct oral anticoagulants. For patients with severe chronic kidney disease, there are limited data on warfarin which supports its use, and data for direct oral anticoagulants is limited primarily to pharmacologic studies which support dose reductions but lack information on patient outcomes. For patients with end-stage renal disease, studies on warfarin are conflicting, but the majority suggest a lack of benefit and possible harm, and studies in direct oral anticoagulants are very limited, but apixaban may be effective and has FDA-approved labeling. In conclusion, warfarin or direct oral anticoagulants may be used based on the degree of severity of chronic kidney disease, but further study in needed in patients with end-stage renal disease. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
The purpose of this review is to summarize and discuss available information on the management of epilepsy patients on renal replacement therapy. Older and newer antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) pharmacology will be reviewed, as well as the need to supplement dosages during or after hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, and continuous renal replacement treatment.
Glomerular podocytes are highly specialized epithelial cells and play an essential role in establishing the selective permeability of the glomerular filtration barrier of kidney. Maintaining the viability and structural integrity of podocytes is critical to the clinical management of glomerular diseases, which requires a thorough understanding of podocyte cell biology. As mature podocytes lose proliferative capacity, a conditionally SV40 mutant tsA58-immortalized mouse podocyte line (designated as tsPC) was established from the Immortomouse over 20 years ago. However, the utility of the tsPC cells is hampered by the practical inconvenience of culturing these cells. In this study, we establish a user-friendly and reversibly-immortalized mouse podocyte line (designated as imPOD), on the basis of the tsPC cells by stably expressing the wildtype SV40 T-antigen, which is flanked with FRT sites. We show the imPOD cells exhibit long-term high proliferative activity, which can be effectively reversed by FLP recombinase. The imPOD cells express most podocyte-related markers, including WT-1, Nephrin, Tubulin and Vinculin, but not differentiation marker Synaptopodin. The imPOD cells do not form tumor-like masses 
Peritoneal dialysis (PD) starters generally have a better outcome compared with hemodialysis (HD) starters, perhaps related to treatment characteristics or case mix. We previously showed that pre- and post-dialysis start clinical parameter trajectories are related to outcomes. The aim of this study was to investigate these trajectories in PD and HD starters.
It is well established that diabetic nephropathy increases the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), but how severe diabetic retinopathy (SDR) impacts this risk has yet to be determined.
Urinary bladder agenesis is a very rare congenital anomaly with very few cases reported in the literature.
Cisplatin is a well-known chemotherapeutic drug applied for the treatment of numerous human cancers. However, the use of cisplatin in clinic is limited by certain serious side effects, such as nephrotoxicity. Unfortunately, there is currently no effective therapeutic approach to prevent cisplatin-induced AKI. Increasing evidence suggests that apoptosis of tubular epithelial cells and renal inflammation mainly determine the progression and outcome of cisplatin-induced AKI. Asiatic acid (AA) has been reported have the functions of anti-inflammation and anti-apoptosis, etc. But the effects of AA on kidney injury induced by cisplatin are still not known. The current study aimed to determine the potential renoprotective effects of AA on kidney injury induced by cisplatin. Twenty-four C57BL/6 male mice were randomly divided into four groups: normal control (CON), cisplatin-induced AKI (CIS), AKI with 50?mg/kg AA pretreatment (CIS?+?AA50), and AKI with 100?mg/kg AA pretreatment (CIS?+?AA100). Mice were anesthetized and sacrificed at 72?h after the cisplatin injection. Blood and kidney samples were collected for analyses. Compared with CON mice, cisplatin-treated mice exhibited severe tubular necrosis and elevated serum creatinine level. However, AA pretreatment (50?mg/kg or 100?mg/kg) markedly suppressed the elevated serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and histological changes. Moreover, AA pretreatment notably downregulated tubular expression of kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) and the number of apoptotic cells, and upregulated the expression of the apoptosis inhibitor survivin and promoted tubular proliferation as evidenced by an increase in the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive cells. In addition, AA suppressed the enhanced mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines IL-1ß, TNF-a, MCP-1 and caspase-1 in the kidneys. Furthermore, AA pretreatment inhibited NF-?B activation and the inflammatory response, which may result from Smad7 up-regulation. In conclusion, AA protects against cisplatin-induced AKI via anti-apoptosis and anti-inflammation.
Diabetic nephropathy is the commonest cause of end-stage renal disease and affects between 30 and 45% of patients with diabetes mellitus. There is no cure for diabetic nephropathy and the current management of this condition includes glycaemic control, blockade of the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system and lifestyle changes. However, many patients eventually progress to end-stage renal disease. The exact pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy is still being researched, and recent advances have led to the development of several novel potential therapeutic targets. There are a number of different experimental therapies that are currently being assessed. Generally, these can be separated into drugs targeting vasculature/haemodynamic effects, drugs targeting inflammation and drugs targeting oxidative stress. Drugs targeting the vasculature include Tie-2 activators, -sodium-glucose transport protein 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonists. Anti-inflammatory therapies include inflammatory cytokines inhibitors, pentoxifylline, as well as anti-transforming growth factor a/-epiregulin therapies. Finally, anti-oxidative stress therapies include nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase inhibitors and allopurinol. Many new trials are providing promising results and it is likely that some of these therapies will be available for clinical use within the next decade. This article will seek to outline the main advancements in each of these experimental therapies for diabetic nephropathy.
Hyperphosphatemia is a major contributor to poor outcomes among cases of chronic kidney disease. Considering that foods with high protein content are major sources of phosphorus, a more suitable dietary phosphorus measure is the phosphorus to protein ratio. However, Mexican phosphorus to protein ratio tables do not exist. This article aims to estimate the phosphorus to protein ratio in foods commonly used by the Mexican population and to establish its usefulness in the selection of foods for patients with chronic kidney disease.
Higher Fibroblast Growth Factor-23 (FGF23) concentrations have been found to be associated with incident heart failure (HF). Experimental data suggest FGF23 directly stimulates myocardial hypertrophy. FGF23 may also enhance renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system activity. Whether FGF23 is associated with increased HF risk in populations with hypertension and whether this association is weaker in the presence of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) therapy is unknown.
Arterial stiffness, typically assessed as the aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV), and central blood pressure levels may be indicators of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. This ancillary study to the Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT) obtained baseline assessments (at randomization) of PWV and central systolic blood pressure (C-SBP) to: 1) characterize these vascular measurements in the SPRINT cohort, and 2) test the hypotheses that PWV and C-SBP are associated with glucose homeostasis and markers of chronic kidney disease (CKD). The SphygmoCor® CPV device was used to assess carotid-femoral PWV and its pulse wave analysis study protocol was used to obtain C-SBP. Valid results were obtained from 652 participants. Mean (±SD) PWV and C-SBP for the SPRINT cohort were 10.7 ± 2.7 m/s and 132.0 ± 17.9 mm Hg respectively. Linear regression analyses for PWV and C-SBP results adjusted for age, sex, and race/ethnicity in relation to several markers of glucose homeostasis and CKD did not identify any significant associations with the exception of a marginally statistically significant and modest association between PWV and urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio (linear regression estimate ± SE, 0.001 ± 0.0006; P-value 0.046). In a subset of SPRINT participants, PWV was significantly higher than in prior studies of normotensive persons, as expected. For older age groups in the SPRINT cohort (age > 60 years), PWV was compared with a reference population of hypertensive individuals. There were no compelling associations noted between PWV or C-SBP and markers of glucose homeostasis or CKD.
Hypertension at advanced age damages microvasculature and initiates many disease conditions including chronic kidney disease (CKD). In the present study, we sought to determine molecular alterations occurring in angiotensin-II (Ang-II)-induced aged kidney.
Background It is not clear whether risk stratification can help choose the most favourable systolic blood pressure target for primary prevention of cardiovascular events. Design A secondary analysis of Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT). Methods To perform a secondary analysis, we obtained the data from SPRINT from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute data repository centre. In SPRINT, an open-label trial, participants without diabetes with systolic blood pressure of =130 mmHg were randomly assigned to intensive and standard treatment groups with systolic blood pressure targets of <120 and <140 mmHg, respectively. The primary composite outcome was myocardial infarction and other acute coronary syndromes, stroke, heart failure, or death from cardiovascular causes. Here, we have analysed data from participants without cardiovascular disease and chronic kidney disease aged under 75 years categorised based on the baseline 10-year Framingham risk score (<10% (low risk); =10% and <15% (intermediate risk); =15% (high risk)). Results A total of 4298 patients were included in the analysis. With intensive treatment, there was a significant reduction in the primary outcome events in patients at high risk (0.86% per year vs. 1.81% per year; hazard ratio (HR) 0.51; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.31 to 0.85; P?=?0.010), and at intermediate risk (0.60% per year vs. 1.46% per year; HR 0.37; 95% CI 0.17 to 0.82; P?=?0.014) but not for those at low risk (0.75% per year vs. 0.57% per year; HR 1.14; 95% CI 0.55 to 2.38; P?=?0.714). Conclusions Intensive systolic blood pressure reduction is beneficial for primary prevention of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients without diabetes with more than low cardiac risk (above 10%).
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a major complication in hospitalized patients and is associated with elevated mortality rates. Numerous recent studies indicate that AKI also significantly increases the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD), end-stage renal disease (ESRD), hypertension, cardiovascular disease and mortality in those patients that survive AKI. Moreover, the risk of ESRD and mortality after AKI is substantially higher in patients with preexisting CKD. However, the underlying mechanisms by which AKI and CKD interact to promote ESRD remain poorly understood. The recent development of models that superimpose AKI on rodents with preexisting CKD have provided new insights into the pathogenic mechanisms mediating the deleterious interactions between AKI and CKD. These studies show that preexisting CKD impairs recovery from AKI and promotes the development of mechanisms of CKD progression. Specifically, preexisting CKD exacerbates microvascular rarefaction, failed tubular redifferentiation, disruption of cell cycle regulation, hypertension and proteinuria after AKI. The purpose of this review is to discuss the potential mechanisms by which microvascular rarefaction and hypertension contribute to impaired recovery from AKI and the subsequent progression of renal disease in preexisting CKD states.
Glomeruli number and size are important for determining the pathogenesis of glomerular disease, chronic kidney disease, and hypertension. Moreover, renal injury can occur in specific cortical layers and alter glomerular spatial distribution. In this study, we present a comprehensive structural analysis of glomeruli in a model of Adriamycin (Doxorubicin) nephropathy. Glomeruli are imaged (micro-CT at 10×10×10µm
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is now considered a systemic disease due to the occurrence of extra-hepatic manifestations. Among these, the renal involvement is frequent. HCV infection, in fact, is strongly associated with proteinuria and chronic kidney disease (CKD) and negatively affects the prognosis of renal patients. In the last few years, availability of more specific and effective drugs against HCV has dramatically changed the clinical course of this disease. These drugs may provide further advantages in the CKD population as a whole by reducing progression of renal disease, mortality rate and by increasing the survival of graft in renal transplant recipients. The strict pathogenetic and prognostic link between HCV infection and CKD requires an ongoing relationship among the healthcare professionals involved in the treatment of both HCV infection and CKD. Therefore, Scientific Societies involved in the care of this high-risk population in Italy have organized a joint expert panel. The aim of the panel is to produce a position statement that can be used in daily clinical practice for the management of HCV infected patients across the whole spectrum of renal disease, from the conservative phase to renal replacement treatments (dialysis and transplantation). Sharing specific evidence-based expertise of different professional healthcare is the first step to obtain a common ground of knowledge on which to instate a model for multidisciplinary management of this high-risk population. Statements cover seven areas including epidemiology of CKD, HCV-induced glomerular damage, HCV-related renal risk, staging of liver disease in patients with CKD, prevention of transmission of HCV in hemodialysis units, treatment of HCV infection and management of HCV in kidney transplantation.