In epidemiology, intervention is normally used to define what experiment is intervention studies are equaled to experimental studies. Experimental studies are also considered scientifically more rigorous than observational ones. Intervention is generally referred to human activities that can interfere or change natural conditions. The intervention by definition may not necessarily be beneficial to the study subjects (although exposing harmful interventions to humans are unethical) and activities by the researcher, by the subject himself, or by any third party and either now or in the past can all form "effective" interventions. For example, interventions that can damage the optic nerve by any of the three parties can all help the researcher establish the relation between the optic nerve and vision. In the same sense, an activity that a study subject initiated in the past, such as smoking, would also constitute a valid intervention. As a result, a cohort study on smoking and lung cancer would also be an experiment. From the above arguments, we can see that intervention alone does not suffice to distinguish between experiment and observation. As we equal experiment to higher scientific rigorousness than observation, only can study designing features of intervention studies be used to define experiment. In intervention trials, randomization is the defining feature that makes randomized controlled trials differ from, and scientifically more rigorous than, controlled observational studies and has been commonly used to define experiment. If we have to divide clinical research into experiment and observation, randomized controlled trials would be experimental and non-randomized studies of intervention are trials but not experiment. Big data, real-world studies are not experiment and cannot replace randomized trials in confirmation of efficacy if comparison groups are not formed by randomization. Real world studies cannot replace randomized controlled trials. This is the most important message this paper wishes to convey.
We present a rare case where distant metastasis of a low grade bladder tumor was observed. We carried out detailed genomic analysis and cell based experiments on patient tumor samples to study tumor evolution, possible cause of disease and provide personalized treatment strategies.
Smoking remains the leading cause of preventable disease and death in the developed world and kills half of all long-term users. Smoking resumption after heart or lung transplantation is associated with allograft dysfunction, higher incidence of cancer, and reduced overall survival. Although self-reporting is considered an unreliable method for tobacco use detection, implementing systematic cotinine-based screening has proven challenging. This review examines the prevalence of smoking resumption in thoracic transplant patients, explores the risk factors associated with a post-transplant smoking resumption and discusses the currently available smoking cessation interventions for transplant patients.
A recent position statement by a group of European experts reviewed the current evidence for low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) lung cancer screening, based on the outcomes and screening performance of the published randomized trials and identified actions needed for eventual future implementation. After the National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) outcome publication, guidelines changed in USA and Canada, but there are still problems in real-world screening practice. In Europe any decision was postponed to the publication of the European randomized trial outcomes and recommendations continue to discourage screening for lung cancer in all member countries. The NELSON randomized controlled trial (RCT), the largest one in Europe, outcome results are still waited, whereas the MILD, DANTE, DLSCT and ITALUNG (all with small sample size) RCTs have published mortality and incidence data with adequate follow up. The implementation of an organized screening in Europe is conditioned by a health technology assessment process at European level. According with the European policy, confirmed in the recent European Cancer Code [2015], screening is transferred in current public-health practice according with evidence-based recommendations and based on organized, usually population-based, programs. Guidelines, standard indicators of performance, training of dedicated radiologists and professionals and a comprehensive quality assurance system is requested in European countries to implement nationally a public health screening program. Waiting the NELSON randomized trial results, key issues as modality for selection of high risk subjects and recruitment, integration of screening and smoking cessation, optimal screening regimen and related research on biomarkers should be assessed, discussed and reviewed. Informed decision making, promotion of primary prevention and integration of screening and smoking cessation are all essential components of a comprehensive risk reduction policy. The path to an Evidence-based screening practice is narrow and, in the absence of a well-established decision-making process, the risk of a spontaneous, uncontrolled use of LDCT screening or, on the other side, an oversight of the screening opportunity is high.
Non-intubated, or awake, video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery has been implemented for non-anatomical lung resection and the results obtained were encouraging to consider the approach for anatomical pulmonary resection. This study was conducted to evaluate the perioperative outcomes of the non-intubated and intubated video-assisted thoracoscopic lobectomy in lung cancer in regards to feasibility and safety.