Living kidney donors have an increased risk of end-stage renal disease, with hypertension and diabetes as the predominant causes. In this study, we sought to better understand the timeline when these diseases occur, focusing on the early postdonation period.
We read with great interest the article of Yang et al
Amenable mortality, or premature deaths that could be prevented with medical care, is a proven indicator for assessing healthcare quality when adapted to a country or region's specific healthcare context. This concept is currently used to evaluate the performance of national and international healthcare systems. However, the levels of efficacy and effectiveness determined using this indicator can vary greatly depending on the causes of death that are included. We introduce a new approach by identifying a subgroup of causes for which there are available treatments with a high level of efficacy. These causes should be considered sentinel events to help identify limitations in the effectiveness and quality of health provision.
Renal function decline is associated with progressive type 2 diabetes mellitus, which causes mineral and bone disorders. In the present study, we defined the ratio of urinary phosphate excretion (mg/day) to serum fibroblast growth factor 23 as the nephron index. We examined changes in the nephron index in type 2 diabetes patients with early stage chronic kidney disease (stages 1-3), enrolling 15 patients and retrospectively analysing the follow-up data. After follow-up at 5.4 years, we observed no significant changes in the estimated glomerular filtration rate; the nephron index, however, was significantly reduced between the baseline and the follow-up. We propose that the nephron index may be potentially useful as a biomarker for monitoring the decline of renal function in the early stages of diabetic chronic kidney disease patients.
Elderly people are recognised to be at increased risk of oropharyngeal dysphagia (OPD), the causes of which are multifactorial. Our aim was to identify if sepsis is associated with OPD in the elderly during hospitalisation in the absence of known other risk factors for OPD.
Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have discovered >50 risk loci for type 1 diabetes (T1D). However, those variations only have modest effects on the genetic risk of T1D. In recent years, accumulated studies have suggested that gene-gene interactions might explain part of the missing heritability. The purpose of our research was to identify potential and novel risk genes for T1D by systematically considering the gene-gene interactions through network analyses. We carried out a novel system network analysis of summary GWAS statistics jointly with transcriptomic gene expression data to identify some of the missing heritability for T1D using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Using WGCNA, seven modules for 1852 nominally significant (P ≤ 0.05) GWAS genes were identified by analyzing microarray data for gene expression profile. One module (tagged as green module) showed significant association (P ≤ 0.05) between the module eigengenes and the trait. This module also displayed a high correlation (r = 0.45, P ≤ 0.05) between module membership (MM) and gene significant (GS), which indicated that the green module of co-expressed genes is of significant biological importance for T1D status. By further describing the module content and topology, the green module revealed a significant enrichment in the "regulation of immune response" (GO:0050776), which is a crucially important pathway in T1D development. Our findings demonstrated a module and several core genes that act as essential components in the etiology of T1D possibly via the regulation of immune response, which may enhance our fundamental knowledge of the underlying molecular mechanisms for T1D.
The role of oxidative stress in the occurrence and development of diabetes mellitus is both critical and pivotal. Several molecular event cascade in different metabolic pathways such as glycolytic, hexosamine, protein kinase C, polyol and advanced glycation end-product (AGE) pathways have been identified as pro-oxidative processes and are usually up-regulated in the diabetics. Inhibition of glyceraldehyde-3-P dehydrogenase by poly-ADP-ribose polymerase 1 and subsequent accumulation of the enzyme substrate (glyceraldehyde-3-P) appears to be central to diabetes-associated oxidative stress. Increased level of glyceraldehyde-3-P activates two major pro-oxidative pathways in diabetes: (i) It activates the AGE pathway, precisely the synthesis of methylglyoxal from non-enzymatic dephosphorylation of the triose phosphates (ii) It activates protein kinase C (PKC) pathway by promoting the synthesis of diacylglycerol. In addition, it causes the accumulation of glycolytic metabolites upstream, and this leads to excessive stimulation of other pro-oxidative pathways such as hexosamine and polyol pathways. This review tends to highlight the main oxidative processes associated with diabetes mellitus.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a major problem worldwide. Within this patient group, cardiovascular diseases are the biggest cause of morbidity and mortality. Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is defined as diabetes-associated structural and functional changes in the myocardium, not directly attributable to other confounding factors such as coronary artery disease or hypertension. Pathophysiology of DCM remains unclear due to a lack of adequate animal models reflecting the current pandemic of diabetes, associated with a high increased sugar intake and the 'Western' lifestyle. The aim of this study was to develop an animal model mimicking this 'Western' lifestyle causing a human-like phenotype of DCM. Twenty-four Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned into a normal or a 'Western' diet group for 18 weeks. Glucose and insulin levels were measured with an OGTT. Heart function was assessed by echocardiography and hemodynamic measurements in vivo. Cardiac fibrosis and inflammation were investigated in vitro. 'Western' diet given to healthy rats for 18 weeks induced hyperglycemia together with increased AGEs levels, insulin levels and hypertriglyceridemia. Heart function was altered with increased end-diastolic pressure, left ventricle hypertrophy. Changes in vivo were associated with increased collagen deposition and increased PAI-1 levels in the heart. High-sugar diet or 'Western' diet causes T2DM and the hallmarks of DCM in rats, reflecting the phenotype of the disease seen in patients. Using this new model of T2DM with DCM might open new insight in understanding the pathophysiology of DCM and on a long term, test targeted therapies for T2DM with DCM patients.
Visceral adiposity index (VAI), initially developed for the assessment of cardiometabolic risk, has been also proposed for the detection of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD); however, its diagnostic performance for NAFLD is still under investigation. We evaluated VAI as a marker of NAFLD and compared its diagnostic performance with that of three other NAFLD indices - fatty liver index (FLI), lipid accumulation product (LAP) and hepatic steatosis index (HSI) - in premenopausal women with and without polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) assessed for NAFLD by ultrasonography.
To describe the association between diabetes and colon cancer recurrence.
Haemorrhagic cholecystitis is a rare entity of acute cholecystitis that carries a high morbidity and mortality rate if management is delayed. Its clinical course can mirror that of acute cholecystitis. Characteristic findings on ultrasound or CT scan are useful clues to early diagnosis. Urgent cholecystectomy is required prior to progressing to perforation of gallbladder. Most of the literature are case reports with causes associated with anticoagulation. Herein, we described a morbidly obese patient with poorly controlled diabetes presenting with non-specific right upper quadrant pain and was subsequently diagnosed with haemorrhagic cholecystitis. A review of the literature was also performed to summarise the potential clinical presentations, distinctive imaging findings and management options available for this rare condition.
Our aim was to compare once-weekly semaglutide to incretin-based therapies - defined as either dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP-4i) or other Glucagon-like peptide-1 Receptor Agonist (GLP-1RA) - in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is one of the most common diseases of endocrine and metabolic disorders, whose mechanism is still largely unknown. Fortunately, various "omics" tools have been employed to better understand the progression pathologies of T2DM and its complications. More specifically, proteomics, metabolomics and metagenomics have played crucial roles in advancing deeper understanding of the physiological processes and regulatory mechanisms of T2DM, such as regulation of signaling pathways perturbed by glucose levels, intestinal microorganism, and inflammation and so on. By analyzing the dynamic change and modification of proteins, proteomics has become an important tool in biology and medicine. Metabolomic analysis can amplify and quantify metabolites in living organisms to reveal the relative relationship between metabolites and physiological and pathological changes. There are also increasing evidences that the human microbiome, specifically the gastrointestinal microbiome have a potential role in the etiology and pathological outcomes of T2DM and its complications. This article summarized and discussed the recent applications of these "omics" tools in finding biomarkers for T2DM and its complications. We also reviewed employing multiple "omics" to further advance our understanding of this pathology. This review will benefit deeper understanding in new therapeutic and/or diagnostic biological target for the discovery of T2DM and its complications.
Chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS) is a complex disorder that affects a large proportion of all men. A limited understanding of its etiology and pathogenesis is reflected by the absence of effective therapies. Although CPPS is deemed clinically non-infectious with no well-defined etiological role for microbes, bacteria is readily isolated from both healthy and patient prostate secretion and urine samples. Our laboratory has previously demonstrated that a specific gram-negative bacterial isolate can induce CPPS-like symptoms in mice. Here we aimed to expand on these findings examining the role of gram-positive patient-derived bacteria in CPPS.
Diabetes mellitus is a major chronic disease and causes over one million deaths. KCNJ11 genetic polymorphisms influence the response of first-line oral antidiabetic agent sulfonylureas. Hsa-miR-4532 correlates with diabetic nephropathy and has a high abundance in urine. MIR4532 rs60452575 G>A variant changes the mature sequence of hsa-miR-4532. We studied whether the genetic polymorphisms of MIR4532 rs60452575 would influence KCNJ11 expression and sulfonylurea-stimulated insulin secretion or not.
Adult extreme obesity (EO) is a growing health concern. The prevalence of known obesity associated co-morbidities namely cardio-metabolic and neuro-psychiatric disease in EO is not fully established. The contribution of pathogenic genetic variants, previously implicated in early childhood onset obesity, to adult EO is also not established.
Congenital hypothyroidism (CHT) is one of the most common preventable causes of learning disability. Newborn screening with whole-blood thyroid-stimulating hormone measurements was introduced in the Republic of Ireland in 1979 and is coordinated from a single center with an unchanged protocol since its inception. Our objective in this study was to describe the incidence of CHT in the Republic of Ireland over the past 37 years in the context of a complete national population and an unchanged screening protocol.
Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells derived from chorionic villi of human term placentae (pMSCs) protect human endothelial cells from injury induced by hydrogen peroxide (H
A chronic magnesium deficiency may be one of the causes of lifestyle-related diseases such as hypertension and diabetes. Serum Mg